## 1. Introduction 
EIS -> any kind of information system which improves the function of an enterprise business process by integration
-> provides single system central to organisation that ensures that info. can be shared across all functional level and management hierarchies 
-> Increase business productivity and reduce service cycles, product development cycles and marketing cycles.
-> Other outcomes are operational efficiency and cost savings

## 2. Enterprise Business Processes
Busniess Process -> an activity or set of activities that will accomplish a specific organisational goal.
-> Designed as per vision and mission of top mgmt.

Business Process Mgmt. -> Achieve 3E's -> Effectiveness, Efficiency and Economy.
-> Systematic approach 

### 2.1 Catagories of Business Processes 
1. Organisational Processes or Primary Processes
	-> Deals with core business and value chain 
	-> deliver value to customer by helping to produce a product or service 
	-> represent essential business activities that accomplish business objectives
	-> e.g. generating revenue (Order to cash cycle), procurement (purchase to pay            cycle)
2. Supporting Processes
	-> back up core processes and functions within an organisation.
	-> e.g. Accounting, Human resource mgmt., workplace safety.
	-> key differenciator - does not provide value to customer directly
3. Management processes
	-> measure monitor and control activites related to business procedures ans systems.
	->e.g. governance, internal communications, strategic planning, budgeting etc.
	

## 3. Automated Business Processes
BPA -> Technology enabled automation of activities and services that accomplish a specific function and can be implemented for many different functions of company activies, including sales, management etc.
-> consists of integrating applications and using software applications throughout the organisation.

### 3.1 Factors affecting success of BPA (CIAT)
-> Confidentiality : ensure date is available to only the persons who have right to see the same
-> Integrity : ensure that no un-authorized amendments can be made in the data.
-> Availability : ensure that data is available when asked for 
-> Timeliness : ensure data is available at the right time.

To ensure that above parameters are met BPA needs to have appropriate internal controls.

### 3.2 Benefits of Automating Business Processes 
(Q Tum Time Time Meri Efficiency Reliablility Visibility Badathi Ho Isliye Tu Costly ho)

- Quality and consistency 
- Time savings 
- Reduced Turnaround times 
- Improved operational efficiency 
- Governance and reliablity
- Visibility
- Reduces costs 

### 3.3 Which business processes should be automated (New topic)

- involving high volume of taks or repetitive taks 
- requiring multiple people to execute tasks 
- time sensitive processes 
- processes involving need for compliance and audit trail
- having significant impact on other processes and systems 

### 3.4 Challenges involved in BPA
- Automating redundant processes 
	-> Sometimes automate process without conidering whether they are necessary or create value
	-> Some business processes and taks require high amount of tacit knowlege (that cannot be documented and tranferred from one person to another) and therefore seek employees to use their personal judgement 
- Defining complex processes 
	-> Required detailed understanding of underlying business processes to develop an automated process
- Staff resistance 
	-> Staff see automation as a way of reducing their decision making power
- Implementation costs


### 3.5 BPA Implementation
Steps involved in implementing BPA :
1. Define why we plan to implement BPA 
	- answer to this question will provide justification for implementing BPA
2. Understand the rules/regulations under which it needs to comply with
	- any BPA created has to comply with applicable laws and regulations
3. Document the process we wish to automate
	- current processes which are planned to be automated need to be correctly and completely documented at this step
4. Define the objectives/goals to be achieved by implementing BPA
	- enables the developer and user to understand the reasons for going for BPA. The goal needs to be clear and precise
5. Engage the business process consultant
	- once entity defines the above, it needs to appoint an expert who can implement it for the entity
6. Calculate the RoI for the project
	- answer for this question may help convince magmt. to say yes to the BPA exercise
7. Development of BPA
	- Once the top mgmt. grants their approval, the right business solution has to be procured and implemented covering the necessary BPA
8. Testing the BPA
	- Before making the process live, the solutions need to be fully tested

## 4. Risk and its Management
### 4.1 Introduction
- Risk is any event which may result in significant deviation from a planned objective resulting in unwanted negetive consequence.

### 4.2 Sources of Risk
Broadly, risk has the following characteristics :
- Potential loss that exists as the result of threat/vulnerability process. 
- Uncertainty of loss expressed in terms of probability of such loss.
- The probability/likelihood that a threat agent may mount a specific attack against a particular system.

### 4.3 Types of risk

** A. Business Risks**

- Strategic Risks
	- Risks that would prevent an organisation from achieving its objectives. E.g. risks related to strategy, political, economic etc.
- Financial RIsks
	- Risks that could result in negative financial impact. E.g volatility in foreign currencies, interest rates etc.
- Regulatory (Compliance) Risks
	-  Risks that could expose an organisation to fines and penalties from regulatory agencies.
- Operational Risks
	- risks that could prevent the organisation from operating in the most efficient and effective manner or be disruptive to other operations.
- Hazard Risks
	- include risks that are insurable such as natural disasters, various insurable liabilities, impairment of physical assets, terrorism etc.
- Residual Risks
	- Any risk remaining even after counter measures are analyzed and implemented. Organisation's management of risk should condier the two areas : acceptance of residual risk and selection of safegaurds. 

** B. Technology Risks **
-	Downtime due to technology failure 
-	Frequent changes or obsolescence of technology
-	Multiplicity and complexity of systems 
-	Different types of controls for different types of technologies/systems.
-	Proper alignment with business objectives and legal/regulatory requirements.
-	Dependence on vendors due to outsourcing of IT services 
-	Vendor relatied concentration risks
-	Segregation of Duties 
-	External threats leading to cyber frauds/crime
-	New social engineering techniques employed to acquire confidential credentials


** C. Data related risks **

### 4.4 Risk management and related terms 

Risk management -> process of assessing risk, taking steps to reduce risks to an acceptably level and maintaining that level of risk.

Asset

Vulnerability 

Threat

### 4.5 Risk management strategies 
Tolerate/Accept the risk :
	- Some risks may be condiered minor because their impact and probability of occurrrence is low. 
	- In this case, consciously accepting the risk as a cost of doing business is appropriate.
	The risks should be reviewed periodically to ensure that their impact remains low.
	
	
Terminate / Eliminate the risk :
	- It is possible for a risk to be associated with the use of a technology supplier or vendor. 
	- The risk can be eliminated by replacing the technology with more robust products ans seeking more capable suppliers and vendors 
	
Transfer / share the risk :
	- Risk mitigation approaches can be shared with trading partners and suppliers.
	- Risk may also be mitigated by transferring the cost of realised risk to an insurence provider.

Treat / mitigate the risk :
	-	Where other options have been eliminated, suitable controls must be divised and implemented to prevent the risk from manifesting itself or to minimise its effects.

Turn back :
	- Where the probability or impact of risk isvery low, the management may decide to ignore the risk.
	
	
## 5. Enterprise Risk Management 
ERM may be defined as a process 
affected by an entity's BOD, management and other personnel 
applied in strategy setting and across the enterprise, 
designed to identify potential events that may affect the entity,
and manage risk to be within its risk appetite,
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of entity objectives.

### 5.1 Benefits of ERM
1. Align risk appetite and strategy
2. Link growth risk and return
3. Enhance risk response decisions
4. Minimize operational surprises and losses 
5. Identify and manage cross enterprise risks
6. Provide integrated responses to multiple risks
7. Seize opportunities 
8. Rationalize capital 

### 5.2 ERM Framework (Components of ERM)
ERM provides a framework for risk management which involves :
- Identifying potential threats or risks
- determining how big a threat or risk is, what could be its consequence,its impact etc.
- Implementing controls to mitigate the risk.

ERM framework consists of eight inter-related components :
1. Internal Environment : encompasses the tone of an organisation and sets the basis for how risk is viewed and addressed by an entity's people.
2. Objective setting : ERM ensures that mgmt. has a process to set objectives and the chosen objectives support and align with the entity's mission/vision and are consistant with the entity's risk appetite.
3. Event identification : Potential events that might have an impact on the entity should be identified.
4. Risk Assessment : Identified risks are analysed to form a basis for determining how they should be managed
5. Risk Response : Mgmt. selects an approach or set of actions to align assessed risks with the entity's risk tolerance and risk appetite.
6. Control Activites : Policies and procedures are established and executed to help ensure that the risk responses that mgmt. selected are effectively carried out.
7. Information and Communications : Relevant information is identified, captured and communicated in a form and time frame that enables people to carry out their responsibilities.
8. Monitoring : Entire ERM process should be monitored and modifications made as necessary.


## 6. Controls 

Control is defined as policies procedures practices and organisation structure that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that business objectives are achieved and undesired events are prevented or detected and corrected.

### 6.1 Importance of IT controls 
Controls provide clear policy and good practice for directing and monitoring performance of IT to achieve enterprise objectives.
IT control peroform dual role which is as follows :
- They enable enterprise to achieve objectives and 
- They help in mitigating risks.

### 6.2 Applying IT controls 

Common classification :
- General Controls : macro in nature and applicable to all applications and data
- Application Controls : controls which are specific to application software such as payroll, billing etc.

**IT General Controls**

General Controls include but is not limited to :
1. Information security policy : statement of intent by the senior management about how to protect entitys information assets.
2. Administration, access and authentication : clearly defined levels of access
3. Seperation of key IT functions : ensure there are no SOD conflicts.
4. Mgmt. of systems acquisition and implementation : establish acquisition standards that address key aspects such as security.
5. Change mgmt. : ensure smooth transition to new environments convering all key changes.
6. Backup recovery and business continuity 
7. Proper development and implementation of application software
8. Confidentiality, Integrity and availability of software and data files.
9. Incident response and management.
10. Monitoring of applications and supporting servers.
11. User training and qualification of operations personnel.


__Application controls__
They are controls implemented in an application to prevent detect and correct errors.
These controls are built into the application software to ensure accurate and reliable processing. 
These are designed to ensure completeness, accuracy, authorisation, and validity of data captures transactions processed

Some examples of application controls are :
- Data edits : editing of data is allowed only for permissible fields
- Seperation of business funcitons : transaction initiation versus authorisation
- Balancing of processing totals : debit and credit of all transactions are tallied 
- Transaction logging : all trasactions are identified with unique id and logged 
- Error reporting : errors in processing are reported 
- Exception reporting : all exceptions are reported

### 6.3 Key indicators of effective IT controls
IT controls are considered to be effective on the basis of following criteria :
- the ability to execute and plan new work such as IT infrastucture upgrades required to support new products and services.
- Development projects are delivered on time and within budget
- Ability to allocate resouces predictably
- Consistent availability and reliability of information and IT services across the organisation.
- Clear communication to mgmt. of key indicators of effective controls.
- Ability to protect against new vulnerabilities and threats and to recover form disruptions quickly and effectively 
- Efficient use of customer support center or help desk


### 6.4 Framework of Internal C