# Determination of National Income

# Unit 1 : National Income Accounting

## 1.1 Introduction

- National Income is defined as the net value of all economic goods and services produced within the domestic territory of a country in an accounting year plus Net Factor Income from Abroad.
- The Central Statistical Organization defines " National income as the sum total of all factor incomes generated by all the normal residents of a country in the form of wages, rent , interest and profit in an accounting year"

## 1.2 Usefulness and Significance

> Plump Dolphins Washed Gandhi Into Flat Casanovas

1. NI accounts provides a framework for analyzing and evaluating short-run performance of an economy. It also indicated level of economic activity and development 
2. Distribution pattern of NI determines the pattern of demand for goods and services.
3. Economic welfare depends on the distribution of NI, size of per capita income an growth of these over time.
4. Basis for assessing and choosing governments' economic policies and evaluating such policies.
5. International comparisons.
6. Considered in economic forecasting and to make projections about the future development trends of the country
7. Composition and structure of NI in terms of different sectors of the economy

## 1.3 Different Concepts of National Income

### 1.3.1 Gross Domestic Product (  $GDP _{MP}$ )

GDP is a measure of the market value of all final economic goods and services, gross of depreciation, produced within the domestic territory of a country during a given time period.

GDP excludes transfer payments, financial transactions and non-reported output generated through illegal transactions such as narcotics or gambling.

GDP is GDP at market prices because value of goods and services is determined by the common measuring unit of money or it is evaluated at market prices.

  $GDP _{MP}$ = Value of Output in the Domestic Territory - Value of Intermediate Consumption 

  $GDP _{MP}$  = $\sum$ Value Added 

- By " Value Added " we mean the difference between value of output and purchase of intermediate goods.
- Intermediate consumption consists of the value of the goods and services consumed as inputs by a process of production except fixed assets.
- Intermediate goods used to produce other goods rather than being sold to final purchasers are not counted as it would involve double counting.
- GDP is a measure of production activity
- NI is a " flow " measure of output per unit time.

### 1.3.2 Nominal GDP vs Real GDP : GDP at Current and Constant prices

GDP which is essentially a quantity measure is sensitive to changes in the average price level.

That is, if prices rise, GDP measured at market prices will also rise without any real increase in physical output.

Real GDP or GDP at constant prices  is the value of domestic product in terms of constant prices of a chosen base year. Real GDP changes only when production changes.

### 1.3.3 Gross National Product ( GNP )

GNP  is a measure of the market value of all final economic goods and services, gross of depreciation, produced within the domestic territory of a country by normal residents during an accounting year including NFIA.

GNP $_{MP}$ =  GDP $_{MP}$ + NFIA

GDP $_{MP}$ =  GNP $_{MP}$ - NFIA

National = Domestic + NFIA

### Net Domestic Product at market prices ( NDP $_{MP}$ )

NDP at Market Prices is a measure of the market value of all final goods and services produced within the domestic territory of a country by normal residents and non residents during an accounting year less depreciation.

NDP $_{MP}$ =  GDP $_{MP}$ - Depreciation

NDP $_{MP}$ =  NNP $_{MP}$ - NFIA